---
title: Frequently asked questions
path: /company/faq
date: 2021-04-06
---

import { goldenSecondary, passionSecondary, dartSecondary, pythonSecondary } from "../../theme.ts";
import theStack from "../../assets/images/the-stack.png";

<PageTitle title="Frequently asked questions" subTitle="FAQ" />

<Section>

<CenteredBlock>

Find the answers to our most common questions below.

</CenteredBlock>

<FaqGroup title="General" activeColor={ goldenSecondary.string() }>

<FaqEntry question="What is Toit?">

Toit is revolutionizing IoT development, making developing, installing and
updating apps and/or the underlying firmware on embedded devices as simple and
efficient as it is now on smartphones. Toit enables continuous firmware delivery
and safely transports your data to the cloud, even when your device is on a
shaky connection. And Toit is so efficient that your device can run on
batteries, allowing you to deploy IoT in remote locations unreachable before.

</FaqEntry>

<FaqEntry question="How does it work?">

The Toit virtual machine runs programs written in the Toit language. It has been
designed to address common pain points in embedded systems.

Indeed, real-time operating systems for constrained devices do not shield
individual applications from each other. Instead, they require all applications
and the base operating system to be compiled, linked and deployed together,
which makes updating them error-prone.

The Toit virtual machine augments the real-time operating system and isolates
applications from the underlying hardware providing a robust, resilient, and
flexible platform for running software. With the virtual machine, applications
are developed, deployed, and updated separately; apps run side-by-side on the
devices in their own sandboxed environment.

<img class="graphic" src={theStack} />

To see it for yourself, [watch](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nh83qoq0nKU) how
Toit allows you to deploy, update and uninstall three apps, including one that
would crash any other IoT device, on an ESP32 microcontroller.

</FaqEntry>

<FaqEntry question="Why can I trust the Toit team?">

Since 2018, developers using Toit can build software for IoT that runs inside a
virtual machine on the IoT device, in a similar way to how Google Chrome and its
[V8 JavaScript engine](https://v8.dev/) have changed internet browsing forever.
Toit’s goal is to make IoT development as easy and intuitive as developing apps
for smartphones.

And who could be better suited to do that than the five founders of Toit? These
are the guys from the V8 team that turned your browser into an application
platform with Google Chrome, and led the [Dart](https://dart.dev/) project at
Google, a cross-platform client-side language that became the foundation for
[Flutter](http://flutter.dev), a fast-growing language for mobile apps.

Learn more about the five Toit founders: [Lars
Bak](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lars_Bak_(computer_programmer)>), [Kasper
Lund](http://linkedin.com/in/kasper-verdich-lund-ab410a2), [Erik
Corry](https://www.linkedin.com/in/erik-corry-2a53811/), [Anders
Johnsen](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anders-n-johnsen/), and [Florian
Loitsch](https://www.linkedin.com/in/florian-loitsch-47b7261b4/).

</FaqEntry>

</FaqGroup>

<FaqGroup title="ESP32" activeColor={ dartSecondary.string() }>

<FaqEntry question="Why the ESP32?">

Toit runs on the [ESP32](https://www.espressif.com/en/products/socs/esp32) chip
from Espressif. We chose the ESP32 because it offers the best price/performance
out of all the MCUs out there. For $2 or less you get 520 KB RAM, built-in WiFi,
and 34 pins for peripherals configurable to be used for e.g. communication
protocols (SPI, I2C), analog/digital interfacing (ADC/DAC), Ethernet, and much
more. In addition, its deep-sleep mode allows for extremely low power usage and
you can run on a couple of AA batteries for years. All this at a price that is a
fraction of that for comparable or even inferior chips.

</FaqEntry>

</FaqGroup>

<FaqGroup title="Language" activeColor={ passionSecondary.string() }>

<FaqEntry question="Why a new language?">

Because of the resource constraints on embedded microchips, an IoT computing
platform needs to be tight in order to work.

Previous IoT languages (such as Java SE Embedded and MicroPython) were generated
as a limited version of the corresponding standard language by removing classes
and other tools. **But at Toit, we wanted to create a high-level language that
would avoid the limitations of the existing languages used in IoT development.
On top of this, the Toit language had to be intuitive to learn and safe to use.**
Toit syntax is similar to Python, but compared to MicroPython, Toit’s execution
is 20x faster.

With Toit, you use only one language for all logic on your devices, whether it
is the driver for a sensor, or the applications running on the device.

</FaqEntry>

<FaqEntry question="Why use Toit over C?">

C is a low-level language that allows full access to the system. It's a great
language for operations that require precise memory layouts or interact a lot
with system calls. In fact, we use it, and C++, under the hood.

However, C is harder to program in and requires the developer to focus on things
that a high-level language, like Toit, can take care of. For instance, Toit
comes with a garbage collector which makes dealing with memory much easier. Not
only that, but automatic memory management also avoids many crashes that would
bring down the full system. Toit programs are sandboxed and can't write to
arbitrary memory locations.

Also, Toit is a much younger language and has incorporated lots of the language
lessons that were learned in the meantime. It features classes, interfaces,
named arguments, etc.

Finally, the Toit language comes with high-level libraries that abstract away
the low-level operations. We, the Toit developers, fiddle with C, so that you
don't need to.

</FaqEntry>

<FaqEntry question="Why use Toit over MicroPython?">

MicroPython is a stripped-down version of Python that was not tailor-made for
IoT. It is high-level, but it does not really behave as Python does, so that the
switch from Python to MicroPython requires adjustments similar to the ones
needed to switch from Python to Toit.

Since Python wasn't designed for embedded systems, it doesn't perform as well in
that task either. Toit programs run typically 20x faster than MicroPython
programs. Furthermore, the memory layout of objects in MicroPython is not as
efficient as the one in Toit, which means that bigger programs (with many heap
objects) are handled better by Toit than by MicroPython.

</FaqEntry>

</FaqGroup>

<FaqGroup title="Platform" activeColor={ pythonSecondary.string() }>

<FaqEntry question="Many IoT platform companies claim to have an “easy-to-use platform”...what makes yours different?">

- **The Toit VM** - Our Virtual Machine completely isolates you from the
  underlying microcontroller and peripherals, and lets you focus on building your
  solution, not battling hardware.

- **Robust sandboxing** - You can update your apps as much as you want without
  affecting the other apps already installed on your devices

- **The Toit Language** - Work in a modern, high-level language with all the
  perks that come with it, but with an execution speed that is an order of
  magnitude faster than MicroPython.

- **Over-The-Air updates** - It does not matter if your device connections are
  slow or intermittent: Don't worry; your code and updates will come through.

- **The Toit API** - Our API is your gateway to your devices and your data. You
  do not spend time setting up and keep the infrastructure running. Just plug into
  our API and start pulling your device data.

In short, with Toit, you do not need to worry about bugs; they can easily be
fixed remotely, run-time. Don't worry about sketchy connectivity either: your
updates will get there as soon as the device goes online.

</FaqEntry>

<FaqEntry question="Do I have to use the Toit console?">

All the functionality of the Toit console is available using the CLI or the APIs
directly, so you never have to use our console if you do not like it. But even
more, our API is available for you to develop your own fleet management UI, or
to integrate Toit functionality with an existing third-party platform.

</FaqEntry>

<FaqEntry question="Do I have to use the Toit cloud?">

The Toit platform is built so that our cloud is essential for firmware updates,
apps deployment. It is also used to collect data, logs and metrics. This tight
integration between cloud and devices allows for maximal optimization - and
ultimately drives down the amount of data sent between both entities.

In addition, we ensure your data is encrypted and safe both while stored on the
device and while in transmission. The Toit platform is built fault-tolerant and
handles both sketchy connections with low data rates, as well as devices that
are set to be offline most of the time to preserve power. Thanks to this
approach, you can interact with your devices even if they are temporarily
offline.

And you can of course always redirect your data to another backend, but we are
confident that using our cloud offers so many benefits in terms of security and
ease of use that you will want to work with the Toit cloud.

</FaqEntry>

<FaqEntry question="How much control do I have on the amount of data transferred between the cloud and each device?">

Our platform is **optimized** to transfer as little data as possible, the amount
of data can be **customized** to your needs, and we offer maximum
**transparency** regarding the type of data that was used.

- **Optimization**: Over-the-air firmware updates are based on checking the
  differences between the firmware version installed on the device, and the one
  you want to update to, so that we send as little data as possible to the device.
  You also remain in control of firmware updates, as you can always decide if and
  when you want to update.

- **Customization**: Logs and metrics generated by a device can be easily
  adjusted to the threshold you need: you can for example choose to get all
  possible logs for a device in development, and opt to receive only critical logs
  from the devices in production. With a single CLI command, you can scale down
  the data generated by your entire fleet.

- **Transparency**: Our cloud offers visualization of the data consumed from the
  organization level to the device level, so you can easily recognize Application
  data from System data, and identify devices that are producing the most data.
  The Data Usage tab of our console includes graphs that detail your day-to-day
  consumption, as well as the forecast expenses for the coming month.

Finally, our device software allows you to send your data directly to your own
backend so that it never reaches our cloud. You only depend on us for the
deployment of applications and firmware updates.

</FaqEntry>

<FaqEntry question="What do you offer in terms of connectivity?">

The ESP32 and Toit offer out-of-the-box WiFi connectivity. It is also possible
to add Cellular connectivity with the operator of your choice, so you are
flexible to choose the best provider for your communications needs.

</FaqEntry>

</FaqGroup>

</Section>
